Management Doc for Projections (#404)
EventStore/documentation: docs/clients/grpc/projections/README.md

﻿# Projection management

> The various gRPC client APIs includes dedicated clients that allow you to manage projections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The various gRPC client APIs include dedicated clients that allow you to manage projections.
```

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
```

Currently not all clients fully expose all operations.
:::

> For a detailed explanation of projections, see the [server](/server/v21.2/docs/projections/) documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a detailed explanation of projections, see the [server documentation](/server/v21.6/docs/projections/).
```

> The full sample code shown here can be found on the respective [clients repositories](https://github.com/eventStore/?q=client)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find the full sample code from these documentation on the respective [clients repositories](https://github.com/eventStore/?q=client)
```

## Required packages

> <xode-group>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the client SDK package to your project.

<xode-group>
```

<xode-block title="C#">

```bash
dotnet add package EventStore.Client.Grpc.ProjectionManagement --version 21.*
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```
# Maven
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.eventstore</groupId>
  <artifactId>db-client-java</artifactId>
  <version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>

# Gradle
implementation 'com.eventstore:db-client-java:1.0.0'

# SBT
libraryDependencies += "com.eventstore" % "db-client-java" % "1.0.0"
```
</xode-block>

> <xode-block title="NodeJS">

Reviewer: **FIX:** We should split it into JavaScript and TypeScript code blocks as in the other gRPC docs.

Reviewer 2: @ylorph agreed

```
# Yarn
$ yarn add @eventstore/db-client

# NPM
$ npm install --save @eventstore/db-client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```
No additional configuration is needed having Rust installed. Go check https://rustup.rs.
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Creating a client 

Projection management operations are exposed through a dedicated client. 

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#" code="connectionString">

> <<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#createClient

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** I think we should remove the wrapper method for the client creation in the snippet. We do not have such wrappers in other places.

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java" code="connectionString">

> <<< @/docs/clients/java/generated/1.0.0/samples/quick_start/QuickStart.java#createClient

Reviewer: **FIX:** This snippet is incorrect. Java client has `EventStoreDBProjectionManagementClient`

Author: removed and added placeholder, we need to decisde if we still provide those samples ourselves or let the eng. team do it .

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS" code="connectionString">

<<< @/docs/clients/node/generated/2.0.0/samples/get-started.js#createClient

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust" code="connectionString">

> <<< @/docs/clients/rust/generated/1.0.0/samples/quickstart.rust#createClient

Reviewer: **FIX:** This is incorrect, as Rust does not support projections and when it's published, then it'll use a dedicated client `EventStoreDBProjectionManagementClient`.

Author: removed

</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Restart the subsystem

> Restarts the entire projection subsystem. The user must be in the `$ops` or `$admin` group to perform this operation

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** It'd be good to explain briefly what's the projection subsystem and why would you like to restart it.

Author: that's in the server doc if I'm not mistaken .
Mistaken , it's not there .
Dunno why it needs restarting .

Reviewer: We should give at least basic information, so people don't need to jump back and forth to the docs. It may be a single sentence, but giving context, what are the consequences, etc. The same applies to other methods.

Author: > Mistaken , it's not there .
> Dunno why it needs restarting .

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#RestartSubSystem

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client 
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts 

> restartSubsystem(options?: RestartSubsystemOptions): Promise<void>;

Reviewer: **FIX:** This and other TypeScript sample is not aligned with .NET snippets convention. This shows API reference, but should show sample:
```
await client.restartSubsystem()
```
Plus, those snippets should be placed in the NodeJS client (and split into TypeScript and JavaScript).

Author: I'm expecting the respective library maintainers to add samples for the respective clients.
we can't do it all for them

Reviewer: I agree. However, we did that in the past. If we don't want to do it this time, I suggest leaving it as TODO (accordingly to the, e.g. Java ones). This inconsistency, in my opinion, does not look right.

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```

> TODO 

Reviewer: **FIX:** It'd be good to either use `TODO` or `// This is currently not available in the X client` to keep the consistency.

```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Enable a projection

> Enables an existing projection by name.

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** Would be good to add some context to this operation (the same apply to the methods below).

Author: What context ? it enables a projection

Reviewer: It would be good to explain what enabling/disabling means in this context. What are the consequences.

> You must have access to a projection to disable it.

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** It might be worth explaining how to get access and/or link to the access management docs.

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Enable

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
 enableProjection(projectionName: string, options?: EnableProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

> Enabling a projection that does not exists results in an error: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only enable an existing projection. When you try to enable a non-existing projection, you'll get an error: 
```

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#EnableNotFound

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
 enableProjection(projectionName: string, options?: EnableProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Disable a projection 
 

> Disables a projection, this will save the projection checkpoint.

Reviewer: The same suggestion about giving context as in https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689298658.

You must have access to a projection to disable it.

:::warning 
The .net clients prior to version 21.6 had an incorrect behavior: they _will not_ save the checkpoint  
:::

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Disable

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
disableProjection(projectionName: string, options?: DisableProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

> Disabling a projection that does not exists results in an error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only disable an existing projection. When you try to disable a non-existing projection, you'll get an error:
```

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#DisableNotFound

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
disableProjection(projectionName: string, options?: DisableProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Delete a projection

> Deletes a projection

Reviewer: The same suggestion about giving context as in https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689298658.

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

```csharp
// This is currently not available in the .net client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
deleteProjection(projectionName: string, options?: DeleteProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Abort a projection

> Aborts a projection, this will not save the projection's checkpoint.

Reviewer: The same suggestion about giving context as in https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689298658.

:::warning

> The .net clients prior to version 21.6 had an incorrect behavior: they _will_ save the checkpoint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The .Net clients before version 21.6 had an incorrect behaviour: they _were_ saving the checkpoint. 
```

Reviewer: P.S. I'm not sure if that's correct, as 21.6 .NET gRPC client is not yet released (https://www.nuget.org/packages/EventStore.Client.Grpc.Streams)

:::

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Abort

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
// This is currently not directly available in the NodeJS client.
// However, disableProjection allows to pass writeCheckpoint: false in the options in order to abort the projection  
await client.disableProjection("projection to abort", { writeCheckpoint: false });
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

> Trying to abort a projection that does not exists will result in an error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only abort an existing projection. When you try to abort a non-existing projection, you'll get an error:
```

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

> <<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Abort_NotFound

Reviewer: Also, are other methods idempotent or only `Abort`?**CONCERN:** I think that part about calling abort multiple times would be good to put in the docs instead of a snippet. Also, are other methods idempotent or only `Abort`? If it's specific to the abort method, then it's worth keeping it as it is, but if it's in general, then it might be worth adding a general note or to the other specific methods.

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Reset

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
 resetProjection(projectionName: string,options?: ResetProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

Resetting a projection that does not exists will result in an error. 

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Reset_NotFound

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
 resetProjection(projectionName: string,options?: ResetProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

> ## Create a projection

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** I think that this should be the first snippet, as we should try to have a learning path. If I were looking for those docs then I'd at first want to learn how to create a projection, then how to run it (enable) then other methods like disable, abort and delete.

Author: move closer to the top

> Creates a projection that runs until the end of the log and then continues running. The query parameter contains the JavaScript you want created as a projection.

Reviewer: **CONCERN:** What does it mean `that runs until the end of the log and then continues running`? It'd be good to explain briefly what the created javascript code does and link to the JS syntax docs.

Projections have explicit names, and you can enable or disable them via this name.

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#CreateContinuous

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
public CompletableFuture createContinuous(final String projectionName, final String query)
public CompletableFuture createContinuous(final String projectionName, final String query, CreateContinuousProjectionOptions options)
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts
createContinuousProjection(projectionName: string, query: string, options?: CreateContinuousProjectionOptions): Promise<void>
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

Trying to create projections with the same name will result in an error:

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#CreateContinuous_Conflict

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java

> public CompletableFuture createContinuous(final String projectionName, final String query)

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: as above, as noted in the original PR description, we noeed to decide if we continue to create those or not for the eng. team

public CompletableFuture createContinuous(final String projectionName, final String query, CreateContinuousProjectionOptions options)
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts

> createContinuousProjection(projectionName: string, query: string, options?: CreateContinuousProjectionOptions): Promise<void>

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: as above , and in PR description since the beginning, we need to decide if we continue to do that instead of the Eng. team

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Update a projection

> Updates a projection. The name parameter is the name of the projection to be updated. The query parameter contains the new JavaScript.

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** Would be good to add some context to this operation.

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Update

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts

> updateProjection(projectionName: string,query: string,options?: UpdateProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: as above, and notes in the original PR description, we need a decision if we keep on doing this instead of the eng. team

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

> Updating a projection that does not exists results in an error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can only update an existing projection. When you try to update a non-existing projection, you'll get an error:
```

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Update_NotFound

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts

> updateProjection(projectionName: string,query: string,options?: UpdateProjectionOptions): Promise<void>;

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: same as aboce , this needs a decision .

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## List all projections

> Returns a list of all projections.

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** Would be good to add some context to this operation.

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#ListAll

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```
// This is currently not available in the NodeJS client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

> ## List continuous projections

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** Would be good to add some context to this operation. Especially what's the Result and partition. Plus, it might be worth only mentioning listing continuous projections, as listing all will be disabled soon (via RFC).

Author: well we have user projection & system projection , if the RFC does not allow that , we have a problem .

Reviewer: It seems that [`ListContinuous` should be renamed to `List`](https://github.com/EventStore/home/blob/master/RFCs/021%20-%20gRPC%20Projections.md)
See: 
![obraz](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/5562528/129678779-c9c2283f-4ea2-40b5-b892-748626f6206b.png)

Returns a list of all continuous projections

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#ListContinuous

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts

> listContinuousProjections(options?: ListProjectionsOptions): Promise<ProjectionDetails[]>;

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: same as aboce commens , this needs a decision

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Get Status 

> Gets the status of a named projection

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** Would be good to add some context to this operation.

Author: the details are explained at the end .

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#GetStatus

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts

>  getProjectionStatistics(projectionName: string,options?: GetProjectionStatisticsOptions): Promise<ProjectionDetails>;

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: same as aboce, this need a decsion

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Get state

> Retrieves the state of a projection.

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** Would be good to add some context to this operation. Especially what's the state in fact.

Author: That is explained in the server doc linked at the very top of the doc.

Reviewer: Yup, but at least a sentence what's the state, in fact, would be good.

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

```csharp

> public async Task<JsonDocument> GetStateAsync(string name, string? partition = null, UserCredentials? userCredentials = null, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default(CancellationToken))

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: same as above, this needs a decision .

public async Task<T> GetStateAsync<T>(string name, string? partition = null, JsonSerializerOptions? serializerOptions = null, UserCredentials? userCredentials = null, CancellationToken cancellationToken = default(CancellationToken))

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts

> getProjectionState<T = unknown>(projectionName: string,options?: GetProjectionStateOptions): Promise<T>;

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: same as above, this needs a decsion .

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Get result

> Retrieves the result of the named projection and partition.

Reviewer: **SUGGESTION:** Would be good to add some context to this operation. Especially what's the Result and partition.

Author: Result is what was written in the javascript passed, this is explained in the server doc .

Reviewer: I think that at least a brief explanation would be good to have, e.g. is it the last projection event?

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#GetResult

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java

> public <TResult> CompletableFuture<TResult> getResult(final String projectionName, Class<TResult> type)

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: same as aboce, this needs a decision

public <TResult> CompletableFuture<TResult> getResult(final String projectionName,  Function<TypeFactory, JavaType> javaTypeFunction)

```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="NodeJS">

```ts

> getProjectionResult<T = unknown>(projectionName: string, options?: GetProjectionResultOptions): Promise<T>

Reviewer: Similar comment as https://github.com/EventStore/documentation/pull/404/files#r689297932 regarding the API Reference vs snippets.

Author: same as above, this needs a decision .

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

Trying to create projections with the same name will result in an error:

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#CreateContinuous_Conflict

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="JavaScript">

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="TypeScript">

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Restart the subsystem
Restarts the entire projection subsystem. The user must be in the `$ops` or `$admin` group to perform this operation

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#RestartSubSystem

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client 
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="JavaScript">

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```
Sample available soon
```

</xode-block>

> <xode-block title="JavaScript">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<xode-block title="TypeScript">
```

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Enable a projection

Enables an existing projection by name.
Once enabled, the projection will start to process events even after restarting the server or the projection subsystem. 

> You must have access to a projection to enable it, see the [ACL documentation](/server/v21.2/docs/security/acl.html#stream-acl)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must have access to a projection to enable it, see the [ACL documentation](/server/v21.6/docs/security/acl.html#stream-acl)
```

:::warning
The .net clients up to version 21.2 had an incorrect behavior: they _will_ save the checkpoint. 
:::

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Abort

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="JavaScript">

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="TypeScript">

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

Trying to abort a projection that does not exists will result in an error:

<xode-group>
<xode-block title="C#">

<<< @/docs/clients/dotnet/generated/main/samples/projection-management/Program.cs#Abort_NotFound

</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Java">

```java
// This is currently not available in the java client
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="JavaScript">

```
Sample available soon
```
</xode-block>
<xode-block title="Rust">

```Rust
// This is currently not available in the Rust client
```
</xode-block>

> <xode-block title="TypeScrip">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<xode-block title="TypeScript">
```

```
</xode-block>
</xode-group>

## Projection Details

[List all](#list-all-projections), [list continuous](#list-continuous-projections) and [get status](#get-status) all return the details and statistics of projections

| Field | Description |
| --- | --- |
| `Name`, `EffectiveName`               | The name of the projection  |
| `Status`                              | A human readable string of the current statuses of the projection (see below) |
| `StateReason`                         | A human readable string explaining the reason of the current projection state |
| `CheckpointStatus`                    | A human readable string explaining the current operation performed on the checkpoint : `requested`, `writing` |
| `Mode`                                | `Continuous`, `OneTime` , `Transient` |
| `CoreProcessingTime`                  | The total time, in ms, the projection took to handle events since the last restart |
| `Progress`                            | The progress, in %, indicates how far this projection has processed event, in case of a restart this could be -1% or some number. It will be updated as soon as a new event is appended and processed |

> | `WritesInProgress`                    | The number of events & metadata currently being appended to emitted streams |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `WritesInProgress`                    | The number of write requests to emitted streams currently in progress, these writes can be batches of events |
```

> | `ReadsInProgress`                     | The number of events currently being read |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `ReadsInProgress`                     | The number of read requests currently in progress |
```

| `PartitionsCached`                    | The number of cached projection partitions |
| `Position`                            | The Position of the last processed event |
| `LastCheckpoint`                      | The Position of the last checkpoint of this projection |
| `EventsProcessedAfterRestart`         | The number of events processed since the last restart of this projection|
| `BufferedEvents`                      | The number of events in the projection read buffer |

> | `WritePendingEventsBeforeCheckpoint`  | The number of events to be appended to emitted streams before the next checkpoint is written |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `WritePendingEventsBeforeCheckpoint`  | The number of events waiting to be appended to emitted streams before the pending checkpoint can be written |
```

| `WritePendingEventsAfterCheckpoint`   | The number of events to be appended to emitted streams since the last checkpoint |

> | `Version`                             | ???  This is used internally, the version this projection is at |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Version`                             | This is used internally, the version is increased when the projection is edited or reset |
```

> | `Epoch`                               | ??? This is used internally |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `Epoch`                               | This is used internally, the epoch is increased when the projection is reset |
```

The `Status` string is a combination of the following values.
The first 3 are the most common one, as the other one are transient values while the projection is initialised or stopped 

| Value| Description |
| --- | --- |
| Running | The projection is running and processing events |
| Stopped | The projection is stopped and is no longer processing new events |
| Faulted | An error occured in the projection, `StateReason` will give the fault details, the projection is not processing events |
| Initial | This is the initial state, before the projection is fully initialised |
| Suspended | The projection is suspended and will not process events, this happens while stopping the projection |
| LoadStateRequested | The state of the projection is being retrieved, this happens while the projection is starting |
| StateLoaded | The state of the projection is loaded, this happens while the projection is starting |

> | Subscribed | This happens while the projection is starting |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Subscribed | The projection has successfully subscribed to its readers, this happens while the projection is starting |
```
